I was talking with my mother on the phone recently, and I was rather taken aback when, during our phone conversation, I mentioned that I'd been steadily upgrading my wardrobe, and she suddenly burst into gales of involuntarily laughter.  She continued to laugh and laugh, until eventually she started choking from laughing so much.  So she kept choking for a little while, and when she finally recovered she continued laughing some more.  I asked her what was so funny, and she said that, well, with my wardrobe, the only direction I could really go was up.  Then she kept giggling for a while as I tried to keep talking to her.

A national sandwich chain called The Wrap changed its name to "Boloco" this week (short for "Boston Local Company", despite its national presence), and as a promotional offer they were giving away free burritos (their new focus) from 11am to 4pm today.  I work right next to one, so my coworkers and I went down at 11am and each got a burrito.  In place of money they would simply ask for your first name and then call it out when it was ready.  At 3:15pm we went down to claim another one, and as we prepared for and journeyed to the Boloco I joked about how we would all have to give them fake names so they wouldn't identify us as having gotten some already.  

When we got in line, and I placed my order, when he asked for my name I actually stuttered a bit and then said "John".  I didn't realize I would do that.  I did this while simultaneously realizing that it was the same guy who had taken my order a few hours before, and that I had gone through the same rigamarole of making sure the burrito had no beans, salsa, or cheese, and was only "meat and rice" inside, so he was sure to associate both conversations and know that I was lying.  When they announced my burrito was ready, I took it calmly and a little red-faced, and then bolted out the open door.

I'm really happy.